---
postName: "ro32"
title: "Philippines vs. Japan: The initialization of the essence"
subtitle: "The tiebreaker is undeniably the essence of all tournaments, how does this match gets into the first tiebreaker of this tournament?"
authors:
  - "leon"
  - "howtoplayln"
table_of_contents: true
---

The intense fight between **Philippines** and **Japan** resulted in the first tiebreaker of the 4 Digit MWC 2023. Let's take a look and analyze the strategies of both teams, and how the outcome is the essence of tournaments.

## Pre-Match Analysis

According to qualifiers statistics, **Japan** players has a significant disadvantage for Hybrid in Early Game and LN in Late Game. But consistency wise, the scores could easily vary and it's hard to tell which team has the upper hand. Meanwhile for the SV Qualifiers, the score were 30k Differences which was significance from the human observation.

The analysis indicated a intense match in other skillsets, meanwhile **Japan**'s chance of obtaining points on LN and Hybrid maps are difficult.

## Protects and Bans

Philippines protected **LN3 - Time Traveler**, one of the more release-oriented maps selected in this round. This map is focused on the 1/4 Releases, and some more releases with the light rhythms. These lighter rhythms releases add more difficulty in maintaining high accuracy in early game. It could be the map which the result is more deterministic, and more focused on the difference of 200s, or even misses.

Japan protected **SV2 - Sweet Dreams**, knowing that Philippines would ban one of the SVs due to the major difference of the qualifier scores. They decided to protect one of the more frequently picked SVs which is this map. It is more focused on the players ability to read and react to the main motif of the song which is the usual patterns we can see in various SV maps.

Philippines banned **SV1 - Progress**, due to it is the Japan's strength in SVs according to their SV qualifier scores, and the rhythm complexity which makes it difficult to maintain the accuracy in the map. Plus some memorization twists which.

Japan banned **LN2 - FREE**, due to its repetition and difficulty in *early game density* and jumpjacks in the transitions. Which could cause them to struggle on maintaining the accuracy or combo throughout the map without enough ability to release.

## Picks

We started off the pick with **Japan**'s protect, which is **Sweet Dreams**, the SV map focused on consistency and more stable rhythms. **iiderp**, one of the Philippines player decided to play with the Fade-In mod which required the decreasing of the scroll speed by approximately half. Despite **iiderp** getting 2 misses in the beginning of the song everyone else managed to keep combo, without any further misses from anyone. With that **Japan** was successful on taking their own first pick with a double 997k V1 SS from their team members. 

**Philippines** then responded with **Super Haraguro Pop**, a hybrid map which is more focused on the accuracy side and 1/4 LN Releases, but with the additional difficulty from the release graces LNs in some parts. Despite the statistical difference in the hybrid qualifiers, **Japan** managed to get extremely close to **Philippines**. In spite of this, unfortunately they were not able to steal the pick from them and lost with a mere 2k points of difference.

**Japan** next choice was picking **Heavenly Spores**, a Rice map with 225bpm index streams. **Philippines** were able to obtain the triple V1 SS, but that was not enough for them to win the pick against **Japan**. It was the MA ratio vs. 200 battle but the MA ratio won the battle. However, this pick resulted in the really close 589 points difference.

**Philippines** then went out with another LN pick, **Mirareru Mirror**. This map is another release map, which focused a lot on 1/2 releases, consistency and 3 columns release. Statistically speaking it was predicted to be a significant advantage for **Philippines** but the end result was qutie close, being 7.4k points with more 200 counts from **Philippines**. Even so they were able to secure the win for this pick.

Experiencing the intensity of the previous pick, **Japan** decides to choose a more tricky map, **HAELEQUIN**. The map contained **Minijacks** and more significant **Index Bursts** and **Trills**. Hence the outcome for this point would be more dependent on the miss counts. The misses were all on the **Philippines** side with a total of 3 misses from the 2nd and 3rd Players of the map. Meanwhile **Japan** had a total of 4x200s without any misses. They got a win with a significant point difference, it being approximately 30k points.

But here comes **Philippines** protect, **Time Traveler**. The LN Mixed map, with it being slightly more Release oriented. Surprisingly, there were no misses from anyone on this pick and it came out to be more of an accuracy battle. It was a successful plan for **Philippines** as the 3rd player of **Japan** struggled to maintain their accuracy for this map which resulted in their 19x200 final score.

The result was 3-3, it was a tie between **Philippines** and **Japan** again after the previous pick. **Japan** had 3 remaining rice picks while **Philippines** only had a hybrid pick left, Hotel Moonside. **Japan** had the option to choose within these 3 rice picks, however for the **Philippines**, it was just a hit or miss for this last hybrid map as it is focused more on control and consistency.  

**Japan** decided to pull out another consistency map, **Bad for me**, with the belief that it will be **Good for Them**. This heavy amen break remix with J-pop song was crafted into a fast paced Jumpstream/Consistency and *trills* oriented map, made by the well-known player, Myuka. All three players from both teams could maintain their accuracy and following each other in terms of 200 counts, in which case resulted in a tie of 200 counts between the third player, and Double SS from both teams. The point ended up being decided by the MA Ratio difference, where **Japan** performed better with a mere 1.4k points of difference.

It is now 3-4 in favor of **Japan**, and also the last pick from **Philippines**, it was either the end of the match but they had some hope left in them. They decided to go with *technically* the only option remaining for them, **Hotel Moonside (1.2 Rate)**. The map is a Hybrid, testing players of LN Control at the beginning, and focusing a lot on consistency and ability to maintain the accuracy throughout the map. **Philippines** performed the top throughout this map, secured a point and brought the match to a tiebreaker.

The tiebreaker was placed on the table, commemorate the **New Era** of this tournament. The map started off with slight advantages from **Philippines** in the first drop where it was more LN Oriented. Then we approached the Jumpgluts as the intermission between the drops. iiderp got the first miss of the map, however the lead was still explicitly high throughout the technical hybrid portion of the map due to the accuracy advantage for **Philippines**, then we approach the break section.

After the break section, as the map started increasing in density as chordjacks were being introduced in the 128bpm range, on **Japan**'s side there came multiple misses from **yakik** meanwhile **Philippines** got a second miss which was from from **Frossno**. The merit from the accuracy advantage from the first half by **Philippines** shows as they were still in the lead. We then reached the last climax of the song, which introduced the 1/8 streams switching with chordjacks throughout the rest of the map.

The score gap became more and more larger as the map progressed, and with that it was clear that it was a victory for **Philippines** when the song is reaching towards the end. After all it was **Philippines** victory and they will advance through the winner's brackets, and **Japan** lost but will have one more chance in the loser's brackets.

## Match Summary

This match was the perfect example of the battle between SV, Rice skillsets and LN, Hybrid skillsets. The picks that both teams picked were secured by them, and the match was intense even though none of them took any risks, and stayed within their stronger skillsets. But since the tiebreaker requires a balance of all skills, the Philippines secured it due to being more proficient in LN and ended up victorious over Japan in this round.
