---
postName: "ro16"
title: "The Discovery Begins"
subtitle: "Media Centre brings to you an interpretation of the uncovered match between Thailand and the United States!"
authors:
  - "polytetral"
table_of_contents: true
---

As the Round of 16 kicked off, many interesting matches begun manifesting, and some of them were as challenging for those in the loser's bracket as those from the winner's bracket. And of all of these, [**Thailand vs USA**](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/106533254) had to be one of the most exciting ones this week.

Starring a battle between the countries who were neighbours by qualifier seeds (8th for Thailand and 9th for the USA respectively), this was a match many awaited the results of, even though it ended up not being streamed officially. It was to determine the fates of 2 teams who could potentially approach the lategame and possibly even a podium position, so this match was crucial and had lots on the line for them.

## Protects and Bans

With a prior understanding of the team's strengths/weaknesses compared to their rival, Team USA promptly opened with a protect on SV1 (Like This), capitalizing on Thailand's weaker end which is the SV department. The Thai were on the money in securing their points too, with their protect being LN1 (tbh i dont like being social). Both did not hesitate to shut down the openings for their opponents as indicated by the protects, going for subsequent bans on LN3 (Wicked Fate) by the USA, and SV2 (GIVE ME CHOCO) by Thailand.

## Picks

With the match finally kicking off, the Americans gained the upper hand by winning 3 consecutive picks, banking off on their own picks in RC2 (Teenage Dream) and their protect SV1, all while stealing HB2 (FIRST : DREAMS) with a **harrowingly close margin of 3,134 points**, established by an untimely combo breaker from their opponents.

Prompted to retaliate fast with guaranteed wins from less ambiguous picks, Thailand then went for the remaining noodles, their protect LN1 and LN2 (Non-breath oblige). Along the same parallel as the preceding phase, the Thai team saw 2 players drop singular misses in the middle of the pick by USA, RC5 (Crafted In Ice). However, a flurry of misses by a singular American player mid-map seemed to change the tide of the point, with tensions running down to the wire and resulting in a **nerve-wrackingly small score difference of 5,129 points**, for team Thailand. This phase of the match saw Thailand winning 3 consecutive points, keeping the point difference competitive and ultimately keeping them in the game.

What ensued next was the next phase of the game, where both teams attempted to establish their grounds on the rice for USA and hybrids for Thailand respectively, while upholding a respectable battle of accuracy and consistency. With an increasingly uncertain subset of the pool remaining for Thailand, the pressures were high, and part of the team started to snap under. On the contrary, the Americans seemed to find their ground, tightened defences and started to perform stellar with 3-way FCs on both RC4 (Rainbow Archiver) and HB1 (BUZRA), with **RC4 being won with an even closer score margin of 2,838 points**. This ultimately gave USA the last 2 points they required to win the match, skipping the nerve-breaking tiebreaker for the round.

With both teams showcasing sky-high accuracies and a decent understanding of the weaknesses and strengths of their opponents, it was inevitably a match that simply came down to the smallest of margins, differentiated by the smallest of errors. And Team USA, by powering through with a tenacity for combo, successfully made up for their slightly weaker accuracy relative to their opponents, **netting in a 5-3 win for themselves.** 

Congratulations to Team USA and Thailand for their impressive performances! If you are interested in reading the individual POVs from team USA regarding their win and their prospective match against Singapore, do check out the [Interview](https://4digitmwc.github.io/media-centre/interviews/week-3) for this week, conducted by incoming media centre producer [PorkIsGreat](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10756322)! 

Here's cheers to more exciting matches ahead!
