---
postName: "qf"
title: "Japan vs Sweden: The greatest comeback or the inevitable defeat?"
subtitle: "Sweden tried to escape the sweep from Japan, do they succeed? Or it was an inevitable fate?"
authors:
  - "porkisgreat"
table_of_contents: true
---

## Pre-Match Analysis

Coming into this match, **Sweden** and **Japan** have came off victories against their first opponents in the Quarterfinals. **Sweden** upsetting the #7 seed Netherlands & **Japan** narrowly defeating Indonesia with both scores of 6-4 each. Both teams have played 10 maps each in the QFs pool, with 7 of maps that each team played. In RC2-6 & HB3, **Sweden** would outscore **Japan** by a decent margin despite the fact that **Sweden** lost vs **Netherlands** on RC6 & HB3. **Japan** on the other hand, outscored **Sweden** only on **LN1**.

## Protects & Bans

**Japan** won the rolls against **Sweden** and got the first protect & first pick priority. **Japan** starts off with the protect of **LN1**. This protect pick is the *release map*, and **Japan** did outscore **Sweden** on LN1 by **200k points**. **Sweden** on the other hand, protects **RC5**. **Sweden** outperforms **Japan** on the QF Rice Maps, and **RC5** is their best performance as they defeat **Japan** by a huge margin of 45k. For the bans, **Sweden** banned **LN2** as **Sweden** didn’t play this map before, and **Japan** banned **RC4** due to the fact that **Sweden** favors over **Japan** by 27k points on **Pump It**.

## Picks

**Japan** starts off the match by going with the map they’ve played previously against **Indonesia**: **SV1 (Concentration)**! **Japan** previously played **SV1** against Indonesia, showed an incredible performance of **2.913 million** as a team. And in their 2nd try, **Japan** showed the audience why SVs is their strongest skillsets. Scoring **2.953m points**, with **AxReo** improving his first attempt from **960k** to **991k**! **Sweden** did their best to keep up by **Japan** won their pick by **95.6k** points.

**Sweden** is now up to make their *first choice* of the match. **Sweden** has chose **RC3 (Point / Counterpoint)**! **Sweden** narrowly outscored **Japan** the first time these 2 teams played, with **Sweden** scoring **2.955m** to **Japan**’s **2.943m**. Before the map started, **Japan** went with the notable player swap from **Ageha8239** to their Team Captain: **Mi0117**. **Ageha** had the lowest score for **Japan** on **RC3**, scoring **965k** against **Indonesia**. This was an interesting map showdown as a lot of players struggled to find their consistency with the stamina map. But **Japan**’s swap player strategy paid off as **Mi0117** scored **982k**, and **Japan** improving their **RC3** score to **2.958m**! Taking their first break point against **Sweden** by **20k points**.

**Japan** having the rare luxury of not having 1, but **2** SV maps! So it was pretty clear they went with **SV2 (Back and Forth)** to get off to a hot 3-0 start. While **Japan** didn’t play this map because of Indonesia banning the map in their match, it didn’t bother **Japan** as they easily scored **2.930m points** to defeat **Sweden** by **90k points**.

**Sweden** then decided to go with their protect pick **RC5 (Alain)**. In the map, **Sweden** got off to a strong start against **Japan**, having better ratio than **Japan** as all players fced the first part, until **NeonDrakon** broke at the end of the first quarter. Shortly after, **Johnney101** would find a break, giving the lead to **Japan**. Everyone hitting the Jacks perfectly until **AxReo** hit the start of a mini burst session too early! The score flickers as **Sweden** ratio game is still perfectly consistent as **Sweden** holds a narrow lead over **Japan** before the final kiai. **NeonDrakon** & **AxReo** trade breaks but **diamondBlaze** lost his FC at the last kiai! That seals the deal as **Japan** takes their *2nd break point* thanks to FCs from **Mi0117 & Shirokuma1022**.

**Japan** with a 4-0 lead, goes with their protect pick **LN1 (New Genesis)**! This was the only map **Japan** has a better score than **Sweden** the first time these 2 teams played **LN1**. And **Japan** would only improved on LN1 by **22k**, as **Sweden** struggled on playing LN1, **Japan** has **double FCs** from **Mi0117 & yakik**.

Now down 0-5, **Sweden** is now 1 point away from elimination. **Sweden** has decided to go with the map they hadn’t played before: **RC1 (Blockbuster)**! Luckily for **Sweden**, despite that **Ageha8239** did improve on the first attempt, Ageha is the only player to get a 98%, as **Sweden** finally wins their first point to make it **1-5**!

**Japan** responds back by picking **LN3 (Quo Vadis)**! **Sweden** did play this map against the **Netherlands**, scoring **2.863m points**. And **Sweden** scored approximately **974k per player**. Total score 2.923m. Not only did **Sweden** improve by **60k points**, they also managed to defeat **Japan** on LN3! **Sweden** took their *first break point* in the process.

**Sweden** going back into the Rice department by going with **RC2 (GAS GAS GAS)**! The speed map that **Sweden** is desperately looking to make an effort to continue their efforts of a reverse sweep vs **Japan**. Just like RC3, **Japan** will make the same player swap with **Mi0117** playing for **Ageha8239**. **Mi0117** had the better score than **Ageha8239**. But unfortunately, just like Ageha, **Mi0117** also had a **98% performance** as **Sweden** would take advantage of the speed map to score their **3rd straight point**.

**Japan** decides to go with **HB2 (Amazing Mirage)**. A map **Sweden** did have a score on, but not **Japan**. This may be a cake walk for **Sweden**, but unfortunately, **diamondBlaze** had technical issues during the match that ultimately gave **Japan** a huge lead. And despite the efforts from **Sweden** trying to close the gap, **Japan** would ultimately score huge. Defeating **Sweden** on their last pick by the score of **6-3**.
