---
postName: "finals"
title: "Brazil vs Canada: Match of the tournament?"
subtitle: "What is potentially one of the best matches of the tournament, take a look to see how these 2 teams managed to push each other to their limits until the very end!"
authors:
  - "porkisgreat"
table_of_contents: true
---

## Pre-Analysis of the match

**Brazil** and **Canada** had lost from the Winner's Semi-finals against **China** & **Singapore** retrospectively. Both of the teams had mixed results against **Hong Kong** & **Malaysia** before the 3rd place battle. Canada went through a match with Malaysia as **Canada** breezed through the Match **7-1**. **Brazil** on the other hand, went through a _tough_ battle against Hong Kong as they narrowly won the match **7-5**. Despite playing most of the mappool, both teams played **7** maps together from the mappool as **Brazil** does have the advantage over Canada on **RC4, RC5, RC7, HB1, & LN1.** Canada had the advantage against Brazil on **RC6 & SV2.** What makes this match even more interesting is that these 2 teams met twice in **4DMWC 2022**. Brazil defeated Canada 5-0 in **Winner's Round of 16** , before Canada was able to get the last laugh as they narrowly defeated Brazil's run in **4DMWC 2022** in the **Loser's Finals** by the score of **7-5**. This match isn't more than just who gets **3rd Place.** This is a match where revenge is on the player's minds from last year's woes.

## Protects & Bans

Brazil narrowly won the rolls as **Zergh** rolls a 77, while **svp-** rolls a 73. **Brazil** wants to protect **LN1**. This is the _coordination pick_ where **Brazil** is favored to defeat **Canada** by **43k points**. **Canada** will select **SV1** as their protect pick. For the bans, **Brazil** will ban **SV2** & **Canada** will ban **LN4**. Both of the bans are pretty _strategic_ as **Brazil** bans **SV2** since **Canada** outscores **Brazil** by at least **200k points** , and **Canada** bans **LN4**. A _tech LN map_ that tests on Grace LN note placements, with some tricky inverse & release sections throughout the map. Also does help for **Canada** that **Brazil** scored **2.925m points** on the map.

## Picks

**Brazil** is now up first and they will pick **LN3 (Albion after the dawn (Cut Ver.))**! Despite **Canada** making their best efforts keeping up with a strong LN team that is **Brazil** , **Holo the Wise/AmariaLove** & **twitch chat** would find unfortunate breaks that is more than enough for **Brazil** to breeze through the map. **Brazil** wins the map by **17k points** as **nayeonie bunny** & **maykee kee** FCs the map.

Down by 1, **Canada** responds back with **RC5 (Energy Synergy Matrix)!** This is a bold pick by **Canada**. Despite the Rice maps being Canada's _strongest_ skill sets, **Brazil** actually has the upper hand heading into the match with **Brazil** scoring **2.898m** against **Hong Kong** , to **Canada** scoring **2.862m** against **Malaysia**. **Axelerrixx** had an early drop, giving **Brazil** a good start ahead. **Buvuw** would follow it up with a break, but **twitch chat** & **Jeyfor** will break for their retrospective teams. Heading into the kiai, **Buvuw** & **Zurgh** would find breaks! And while **Axelerrixx** & **twitch chat** did break a few more times, **Zurgh's** losing the final FC for **Brazil** & **Buvuw's** chain breaks was enough for **Canada** to take the point at the last minute. **Canada** scored **2.891m points**. Which was enough to beat **Brazil** by **16k points**.

**Brazil** will go with another LN map: **LN2 (Pupa)**! This is a density map that **Canada** did play this against **Malaysia** as **Canada** scored **2.872m points** against **Malaysia**. **Canada** had a slight lead against **Brazil** until the kiai section, where the **Canadian players** in the lobby all **broke** , giving the lead to **Brazil** , and that's what **Brazil** needed as **Buvuw (FC)** & **maykee kee** took the top 2 scores in the lobby to make it **2-1**.

**Canada** then decided to go with their _protect_ pick this early: **SV1 (Get Down)**! This is a _reading map_ that both teams will be playing on this map for the first time in competition. Considering that **Canada** had a better score than **Brazil** on **SV2** , all you need to know is that **Holo the Wise** has the high score, and **Canada** won by over **300k points** , making it a tie **2-2**.

**Brazil** responded back with their _protected_ pick: **LN1 (Subete ga maboroshi ni natta nochi de)**! This is a _coordination pick_ that **Brazil** is favored by a **43k point** advantage over **Canada**. **Canada** opting to switch from **[LS]Byte**, who played the map against **Malaysia** to **Axelerrixx**. This switch is paying off for **Canada** as they're in the lead for 2/3 of the map, until the entire team **breaks almost at the exact same time**! Giving **Brazil** the lead. And despite **nayeonie bunny** & **Zergh** did break near the end, **Brazil** almost had a triple FC but it was good enough to defeat **Canada** with **maykee kee** FC the map.

Down by 1 again ( **3-2** ), **Canada** has decided to go with **HB1 (Nidhoggr)**! This is a hybrid map where **Brazil** has a **12k point** advantage over **Canada** coming into this map. Before the map, **Canada** was almost forced to play without **[LS]Byte**, one of their players who had the top score for **Canada** on **HB1** against **Malaysia**. **[LS]Byte** just comes in with enough time to play. **maykee kee** will come in **Zergh** on HB1 when **Zergh** played **HB1** previously against **Hong Kong**. **Brazil** was holding on to a decent lead until **Buvuw** & **nayeonie bunny** both lost their FCs at the last quarter of the map! This will give **Canada** the point thanks to FCs from **[LS]Byte** & **Axelerrixx**!

A tie game at **3-3** , **Brazil** will choose **RC7 (KARAKURI)** as their next map! This is your _chordjack_ map as **Brazil** has a **37k point** advantage over **Canada**. **Brazil** started off the map with the lead based on _accuracy_ and has never looked back. **Buvuw** had a 994k performance as **Brazil** would improve their score by **775 points** , having a team score of **2.961m points** to take it **4-3**!

**Canada** would respond with **RC6 (Kickstart My Heart)**! This is the only map **Canada** has available on the map pool that has both teams played it before, but **Canada** has the better first performance than **Brazil (Canada favored by 35k points)**. **twitch chat** would find a really early break, giving the lead to **Brazil**. But **Zergh** losing his combo after the first quarter would give **Canada** the lead and has not looked back since. **Canada** scored **2.926m points** , defeating **Brazil** by **41k points** to make it **4-4**.

The first **8** picks were all from each team's own picks. **Brazil** looked to retake a map lead as they chose **HB2 (AureoLe ~For Triumph~)**! This is a _50/50 slot map_ as **Canada** played this map before against **Malaysia** , scoring **2.872m points** the first time **Canada** played it. In the map, **Brazil** had a team reset at the start of the map, so **Canada** had a very comfortable lead for the first half, looking to possibly take the first _break point_ of the match! Until **twitch chat** had 2 crucial breaks & **Axelerrixx** losing the FC near the end. Giving the lead to **Brazil** within the last _ **20 seconds** _ of the map. And Brazil didn't look back as **nayeonie bunny** & **Zergh** had the best 2nd & 3rd player scores against **[LS]Byte** & **twitch chat** , which was enough to give **Brazil** their **5th** point of the match.

**Canada** has decided to go into their own uncharted territory, choosing **RC1 (Scarlet Tears)**! This is a _Jumpstream_ map that has a ton of various different stream problems that blend in with the usual Jumpstream map. **Canada** hasn't played this map in competition, But **Brazil** scored **2.881m points** the first time they played it. **Brazil** had a good lead heading into the last quarter, until **Buvuw** lost his **FC** with a break, which still gave **Brazil** a decent lead, but a _huge_ break from **Buvuw** within the last 8 seconds of the map left, giving the lead to **Canada** super late! And that's what **Canada** needed as **Axelerrixx** & **[LS]Byte** would get FCs to give **Canada** their **5th** point of the match.

Now a **BO3** , **Brazil** has decided to go with **RC3 (Ra Variationen)**! This is a _mixed rice stamina_ pick that **Brazil** played on this map previously. This was the map that **Buvuw's**** Full Comboed **with an impressive** 990k performance **. However,** Buvuw's **struggles from** RC1 **have continued where it left off as** Buvuw **was constantly breaking throughout the map. That was more than enough to give** Canada **their** 6th point **of the match, and the** first break point **the match has seen after** 10 straight points** were being given from each team's pick!

With **Match Point & Last Pick** being given to the **Canadians** , **Canada** has picked **RC4 (FUEL TANK)**! A _mixed rice_ map that has **Brazil** slightly favored over **Canada** by **9k points**. **Brazil** begins the map with an **early lead** , and despite **Axelerrixx** being the only player to get a **FC** in the lobby, **twitch chat** & **[LS]Byte** had multiple breaks that would give **Brazil** their **first and only break point**. With this in mind, the score is now **6-6**. And we're heading into **Tiebreaker**!

## Tiebreaker

Coming into the **tiebreaker** , **Brazil** and **Canada** had very limited time for who would be playing the tiebreaker. **Canada** going with **Axelerrixx/[LS]Byte/twitch chat**. The **same lineup** that was in the lobby for the last **7**** maps! **While** Brazil **going with** Zergh/maykee kee/Buvuw **lineup to try to defeat** Canada**.

The **tiebreaker** is here, **twitch chat** would struggle with consistency in the first section, giving **Brazil** a **6k point** lead after the **first 30 seconds** of the map. This is where it's a good thing for **Brazil** as they had such a huge lead, because everybody in the lobby is starting to _struggle_ with _consistency_! **Axelerrixx** had his **max combo chain** of **2,964** before he broke, but it wasn't enough for **Canada** to come back as **[LS]Byte** & **twitch chat** struggles to stay consistent, giving **Brazil** more time to get away with the lead! **60% of the map in** , after slowly catching up to **Brazil** , **maykee kee** would find a break that would give **Canada** for the first time since the start of the map. And **Canada** would go on to extend that lead, as everyone would struggle on the last section of the map! And because of that, the map is over. And after some initial **confusion** due to the **stream client** removing **[LS]Byte** that had the viewers confused that they thought **Brazil** won, the mp link was there and [LS]Byte did complete the map. And by **official ruling: Canada would win the tiebreaker, and ultimately, the match.**

## Match Summary

This match had it all for a **3rd place battle**. 2 great teams with **interesting stories** of how they got there. 2 teams wanting **revenge** for how both of them ruined each other's tournament runs back in **4DMWC 2022** , and both of them doing whatever it takes to make sure they're one step ahead of each other. The typical stereotypes of " **Brazil being extraordinary at LNs only & Canada being strong in Rice**" was thrown off the window as each team looked very, very strong on all maps despite the breaks that have occurred. It was a **strategic battle** between both teams as **10 points** were given from their own picks, and **2 points** were breakpoints. And in the end, both teams looked so strong that it all came down to the **tiebreaker**. And despite losing **2/3 hybrid maps** , **Canada** was able to take the **tiebreaker** when **it mattered the most**. **Canada** will be moving on to the **Grand Finals week** , earning themselves a **Top 3** finish for the **first time ever** for **Team Canada**. **Brazil** will come up short, finishing in **4th**. **But regardless of who wins or loses, this is one of those matches that you just can't help but to pay respect to every player who put their heart & soul into this match.**
