---
postName: "grand-finals"
title: "The Grand Finale: China vs. Singapore"
subtitle: "What is the conclusion of 4 Digit MWC 2023?"
authors:
  - "polytetral"
  - "howtoplayln"
table_of_contents: true
---

## Grand Finale

4DM2023 has been converged to the true essence. The challenger **Singapore**, headed to face off **China** in the winner's bracket. They needed to win twice in order to claim the winner position of this tournament.

### Protects & Bans

Singapore protected the SV map, **SV1 - P0rn0** for initializing the true power and the confidence that this would be the pick that secured the game. While China protected **HB3 - Makoto. Sennen Joou** due to its unusual LN Patterns and Shield, then they banned **SV2 - Q33B**, the memorization SV map with unpredictable SVs. Topped off with the **LN4 - Weenywalker** ban from Singapore.

### Picks

Singapore started off with the first rice pick, **RC2 - Diablo Swing Orchestra - Voodoo Mon Amour**. This map emphasizes a lot on the stream with various snaps and swing rhythms, as well as the tricky bursts throughout the map. The pick was started by the lead from Singapore in the first half from the miss of Mafufu, then there came the fluctuation of the scores after the miss from riunosk. China took a slight lead in the last two thirds of the map. The breaks from lovely_hyahya and Luoxuan brought the lead back to Singapore, TheOPmeme missed at the ending but there was not enough time for the lead to go back to China. Singapore started off with the lead from their own pick by 1-0 by scoring over China on this pick by 1033 points!

China responded with **LN2 - Se-U-Ra - Igallta**, the FelixSpade map focused on coordination and speed in 230BPM. The lead went straight to China due to the better consistency and reading technique in Long Notes. Then Luoxuan missed in the first half, brought the lead back by a bit. However, they were able to recover back to the strong leading which determined the security of the pick. Even though China won on this pick by 19860, oyama mahiro did the job of taking the one and only full combo on this map with 9x200, and Mafufu however, had the 6x200 on this map. The score is now 1-1.

Singapore wanted to see it, they also wanted China to see it too, so they picked **RC6 - Frums - parvorbital**, a mighty technical map by **walmart5193**. The map itself has a lot of sudden pattern transitions, rhythm changes, minijacks and control throughout the entire map, which tests an extreme amount of finger controls and neuron activations. The match started off with the lead from China but with the miss from Zyuuu, the lead went slightly back to Singapore again. Despite it is a map that is indicated the technical skill explicitly, it was not really clear who would take a win on this one, a miss from one of both teams could indicate the entire pick. Then Neon-Hooray missed which brought the lead back to China again, however, after the recovery, the score was fluctuated back and forth and that was just the first half. The lead went back to Singapore after the small break, after the jacks, there comes the breakcore part which contained 200bpm minijacks which leaded to the misses of riunosk and Zyuuu, as the lead is still being secured by Singapore, they took the second point with the lead of 14280 points on this map, and the score is now 2-1.

China then responded with an LN Pick, **LN3 - sasakure.UK feat. Hatsune Miku + KAITO - AMARA (Daimirai Dennou)**, another LN Pick which focused on coordination, as well as the fair mixing of physical skill. In the first part, the Singapore missed a few times which gave a lot of advantages to China who had better consistency and endurance on throughout the Map. Mafufu committed the Full Combo with 99.45% Accuracy, as well as the China team took their second point with the score advantage of 73852. The score is now 2-2.

Singapore summonned **awdse22** with the pick **SV1 - P0rn0**, the SV reading with the variation of slowjams as well as the repetition pattern recognition and memorization. At the beginning, McButt and awdse22 unfortunately missed which brought the lead to China, TheOPMeme also missed in the invisible notes transition. Following with Molli's first miss in the China team, and accuracy drop by lovely_hyahya. With this, the score fortunately went back to Singapore again, and the lead went further and further to Singapore, and they were able to secure the point again by the lead of 27853, with the awdse's **v1 SS Choke** and casually destroyed the map with 99.82% Accuracy.

China unleashed another LN pick, **LN1 - Lilith**, the timing-hell-like entry from **doctormango**. It tests a lot of release skills. The match started off with a consistency lead by China, then there started to be breaks from both teams, but the advantages went to China due to less misses and more consistency. More and more LNs were there to test the players physical strain and endurance. Double FCs was still there for China team until Zyuuu broke at the ending, Mafufu was still securing the one and only FC in multiplayer room, and he prepared us the beautiful meal with 7667 combos as a topping. Giving china the 3rd point of this match, the score is now 3-3.

Singapore decided to continue with **RC7 - Doll of Ai-Ren**. The one and only jack map of this rice pool, 143BPM continuous jacking with the ending being the dense chordjacks, as well as the 4 consecutive jacks in 1 column in some certain parts, the lead gradually shifted towards Singapore while both teams are still keeping the high accuracy. The last half began with the trade misses of riunosk and Molli, the hands were introduced more in the map, then Molli started to not be able to endure their accuracy on the map, dropped to 98% while all three of Singaporeans were still maintaining 99%, resulted in another point Singapore took from their own pick. The score is now 4-3.

China then responded the continuation with their protect: **HB3 - Makoto. Sennen Joou**, the Hybrid map of all time mapped to the legendary song which were well known to the osu!mania community. In this approach, they were represented with quads and jacks convoluted with staggered releases alternating with single streams and there was the introduction of light handstreams, dense chordjacks as well as LN coordiation in the parts containing 1/3 snaps. It was started with a chaotic mess of misses due to the unusual pattern of the map, but out of this chaos, it was resulted in China took a lead. TheOPMeme's accuracy dropped down to 97% before the handstream part before the recovery to 98% again after it. Then the 1/3 snaps started to kick in, there were a plenty of misses from China team, another miss from Zyuuu took the lead to Singapore and it was an opportunity for them to steal this pick as they still had 2 players FC'ing the map. Transitioned to the jacks with staggered releases alternated with single streams again, TheOPMeme missed again, led to the slight lead from China, then there came the miss from Zyuuu which led to the full uncertainty of how the point was determined. Neon-Hooray and TheOPMeme however broke at the ending of the song, China were able to secure their pick once again, and the score is now tied at 4-4.

Singapore pulled out another rice move by picking the My Chemical Romance song, **Welcome To The Black Parade**, as the **RC3 - Lofty's Ending**, the relentless speed stream map testing how much the players can carry on. The lead gradually goes to the Singapore side as they know how to carry on, and it became more explicit that Singapore will carry this point. And certainly, they took it away, with the astounding lead of 95738 points, taking a lead with their own pick again to 5-4.

After China failed to carry Singapore's point away, they decided to invite Singapore to play with ruby **HB1 - NIWASHI - Playing with Ruby**, a hybrid entry by **elexire**, focusing on LN coordination and speed as well as the jacks and general speed pattern in some parts. For this particular map, China had a slight advantage due to the LN Patterning, this comfortable pattern of this map, China was taking a clear lead and a clear point on this one. Took the score back to 5-5 with Mafufu having 987k on this pick.

Singapore committed the tango dance, **RC5 - Los Vino**. This is a short 2 minute map with extreme patterning and technicality. Neon-Hooray started with a drop which brought the lead to China. Then there came the double breaks from China, as well as the drop from TheOPMeme later on. The score started to get chaotic again, then there came a burst which led to the breaks of 4 players in a row. The score was still in China's favor but Zyuuu dropped the accuracy and a miss, and the lead went back to Singapore again. The pattern started to get more and more chaotic, resulted in the miss of riunosk as the lead also went back to China but Mafufu and Zyuuu traded it back, and Singapore, once again, saved their own pick, and going to the match point with the score of 6-5.

After China played with ruby and participated the most intense tango dance, they wanted to do the **HB2 - Match & Rematch** on **Tetris 5D**. The hybrid map by **TheFunk** which simulated the tetris match into an osu!mania map for a tournament, featuring technical and LN inverse in 191BPM. Surprisingly, the lead went to Singapore team, even though there were some misses by oyama mahiro. But the lead was still clear, resulted in the **Bracket Reset** with the score of 7-5.

But what's the true fate of the essence?

## Bracket Reset

### Protects and Bans

It was Round 2. At this point, both countries had gotten a good feel of how their opponents would fare in each of the picks, and the only obstacle stopping Singapore from winning would be that of their own stamina.

With that in mind, both teams knew their own strengths, weaknesses and ambiguities in this struggle for championship. Singapore continued with their protect on **SV1 (Porno by Orca-)** and China, now knowing their absolute strengths in LN, decided to go with **LN4 (Weenywalker 1.05x by -mint-)**. Due to the loss of their previous ban, Singapore decided to switch their ban to one of the other poisons, **LN3 (AMARA by MyZterioN-)**.

### Picks

Starting off the match with a definite confidence in Long Notes, China decides to start the match with the previous map Singapore had banned, **youman feat. GUMI - Weenywalker by -mint-**, aiming to exploit the vulnerabilities that Singapore had been showing on LN picks in the earlier match. Throughout all 3 minutes and 54 seconds of the point, China keeps a very consistent lead over Singapore even on the 1st half, with all 3 players on China keeping a 99.5% accuracy over all 3 Singaporean players, with their leading player being below 99.5%. No guesses to this point, as China kept their scoreline difference consistent throughout a labyrinth of weird releases and dense patterns in the 2nd half, securing their protect with a difference of **30,579 points**. 

With their previous advantage on rice maps and not wanting to quickly exhaust their only SV pick, Singapore decided to start their run with **Frums - parvorbital by walmart5193**, a tech pick they had previously won with a considerable margin. Out of the introduction, 2 players from each team gave away their full combos, causing the scoreline to fluctuate violently. Going into the slower chordjack section, China gained a significant scoreline, acccrued to TheOPmeme and riunosk falling below 99% due to a couple more combo breaks compared to China. With a 20,000 point deficit, Singapore had to hold their accuracies with all their might while praying for misses from China in the last 30 seconds of the map. And adding to the uncertainty of the casters and viewers, Zyuuu caught 2 separate combo breaks at the ending, ALMOST sending the point back to the other side with a near-blunder. **China picks up their 1st break point of the match**, with a **VERY CLOSE 1,400 point difference!**

With the winning momentum and the eastern wind on their side, China goes for their 2nd LN pick, **Se-U-Ra - Igallta by FelixSpade**. Out of the first 3 seconds of the intro 230bpm LN density, China gains a significant 20,000 point lead due to the huge drops by McButt and oyama mahiro. With the score lead and the everlasting consistent 99.6% accuracy from Mafufu, the scoreline extends to a grand **41,457 score difference**, securing China's 3rd point of the match.

At this point, the Singaporean team, as fatigued as they were, needed a break from the physical picks. Taking a strategic timeout, they went for their SV1 Protect, **Porno (Saint Punk Remix) by Orca-**. With awdse22 standing in for the Singaporean rice/LN team to take a break, it felt almost certain that he would be able to carry this pick, just as the 1st time they took this pick. However, out of the introduction, awdse22 quickly catches a miss, and despite keeping his accuracy in check, is met with a 99.7% FC from Mafufu. With TheOPmeme against Molli and McButt holding the 3rd player fortress against lovely_hyahya, all chaos broke loose, as China started the 2nd drop with a lead close to 30,000 points, and quickly loses it with lovely_hyahya unable to keep their accuracy in check with the sneaky slowjam teleports, dropping the scoreline back to a 4 digit difference. With the misses continously rolling in from McButt, it felt almost too crazy that Singapore would certainly lose their SV1 protect, until the comet struck Mafufu and Molli with a choke on the same note, quickly sending the scoreline back to Singapore. With how awdse22 had been creeping up behind China, holding his double-digit perfect count despite the misses, **Singapore somehow manages to hold onto a 15,220 point difference** at the end of the map, earning their 1st point of the match!

Of course, the momentum of the match was still in the direction of China, with LN picks still on the board. **LN1 (Aitsuki Nakuru - Lilith by doctormango and ERA Hatsuki)** was to be the third and last LN pick of the match. Despite having had a reset as his microphone dropped on the keyboard, Neon-Hooray quickly grabs a miss out of the introduction and the rest of Singapore follows suit, giving an immediate 30,000 lead to China a quarter of the way through. By the end of the 1st half, it was as called by the casters, **a point that was already secured**, with how 2 players kept their accuracies above 99% and a steel wall of consistency, and a **44,713 point lead**.

With how both teams had been drained of stamina and their walls back against the wall, it only made sense for Singapore to go for the weakness of China from the past match, by picking **RC7 (-45 - Doll of Ai-Ren by Zami)**. However, it was not all constants for Singapore, as riunosk quickly pulls out a miss in the introduction of the map, giving China a hairline of score difference. TheOPmeme follows after right and into the chordjack section, giving China a significant 4 digit lead. With Molli previous struggling, they were performing up for the occasion and seemingly ready to take the point by holding up the fort in a triple FC streak for China. Into the last quarter, however, the scoreline difference built up seemed to start crubling, as Molli quickly finds a flurry of misses as their stamina gets drained to the speed and control elements, going right below TheOPmeme in accuracy and evens the tide. However, TheOPmeme starts to trade misses with Molli, giving China and Singapore the most intense push and pull of their lives. Just as China seemed like they would somehow win the point owing to the misses being given out, Zyuuu suddenly drops the 2nd FC of the lobby cleanly, sending a **1,799 score lead back to Singapore, and awarding them their 2nd point, miraculously won by an almost non-existential margin.** In the final breaths of endurance and stamina, this was a very breathtaking point to watch.

With no more LN picks at their disposal, China goes for **HB1 (Niwashi - Playing with Ruby 1.15x by elexire)**, which was a point that actually seemed contestable with how oyama mahiro could lend his strengths in Hybrids. In fact, the momentum of the point started with Singapore holding triple FCs to one as China starts to feel the burn on stamina and concentration, keeping a decent lead of ~9,000 points. That was when TheOPmeme started going dangerously low in accuracy, heading below 98.5% despite holding his FC, and being lower than that of Luoxuan. In the flurry of patterns, Neon keeps a lead against Zyuuu, while Mafufu keeps a distance from oyama, evening the playfield and leaving the 3rd players to trade misses and duke out amongst themselves with the scoreline of less than 1cm. Throughout the calmer sections, TheOPmeme and Luoxuan catch their breaths and gain some accuracy back with China still in the lead. But exiting out of that, Mafufu and Luoxuan finds a miss and players find themselves in a torrent of patterns and a tug-of-war. That, however, is followed by very dirty drops and the first blood of Neon-Hooray, giving back the lead to China, who had generally been missing a lot more cleanly. oyama mahiro eventually drops the only FC of the lobby, **giving China their 5th point with a score lead of 21,027**.

At this point, both Hybrids were in the favour of China, and Rice was not in the cards for Singapore given their physical exhaustion. Despite that, Singapore goes for **RC4 (Bring Me The Horizon - Dear Diary by Valedict)**. This was definitely the most risky pick to have given the volatility of dump charts, and how this was generally uncharted waters for the whole of their duel. However, Singapore quickly finds all their FCs lost in the deep depths of metal music, as China keeps their fortress steady and as intimidating as the undead itself. With how rapidly accuracies were dropping on Singapore's end on a slightly shorter song, the scoreline basically flew off to the right end with how Mafufu and lovely_hyahya kept impressively high accuracies of 99.34% and 99.14% each with an FC, **giving China their 6th point with an insurmountable 121,183 point difference.**

At this point, it seemed like both countries were equally strong in raw skill, but both were tired in their 3-hour fiasco. However, it was also clear that one team had all 3 players survive it way better than the other, and that was China. With their last Hybrid China was willing to pick, **HB3 (Shiraishi - Makoto. Sennen Joou by Archaic84)**, it was go big or go home. Out of the 1st half, Singapore saw 2 FCs shot down, to 1 from China. However, oyama mahiro keeps Singapore from flying off the rails at a incredible accuracy of 99.68% a third of the way. But as that happens, the notorious lightning transition between rice handjacks and LN chordjacks make their grand entrance once more, causing everyone to lose their combos but Luoxuan. It was at this point, that the huge lead was secured on China's end. It was all but inevitable as both teams ran to the finish line. As Singapore touches down with a team melt, **China wins the final match of 4DM2023 and their Championship point with a score difference of 58,605**. 

With a wave of elation and gratitude flowing in from the Chinese restream, **China ascends from zero to hero, clinching the gold medal for 4DM2023!** And not to forget, **Singapore, also starting strong as the 1st seeded and unrivalled accuracy team from the beginning, finally comes in with their first podium finish at 2nd place!**

## The Tiebreaker Showcase

Of course, that was not the end of the lobby just yet. How could we not end the tournament with a tiebreaker showcase, just as we had quintessentially called it the **Essence** of all tournaments, even within the song itself?

Regardless, the match had been won, and there was nothing else to gain or lose. It was time to make the blast to space in with the friendships made along the way, the final flood of adrenaline, and most importantly, the emotions that made smiles and frowns of the tournament, making thie very moment ever so special for the two teams. 

If you would like to see the not-so-4-digit (or the essentially 4-digit) scores that these players have set up on this 7-minute gauntlet-cum-masterpiece of a song and map, I encourage you to not only follow the [multiplayer link](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/107172136) for this match, but also watch the match from start to end! In spite of the huge exhaustion towards the end of this game, I can assure you that the performances are top-tier, and while a picture can explain a thousand words, a video can explain a thousand pictures.

### Conclusion

And as the final showdown draws to a close, the essence is finally restored to Zion. 

As the colors gradually flow back into our eyes like drinking water after a walk through the desert, relief and bliss are the only 2 words that can aptly be used for this happy ending, and after all the conflicts and battles that came before it. 

Or is this truly the ending? 

Only time will tell.
